# Trigger Activity Dump Info

`ta_dump.py` is a plotting script that shows TA diagnostic information, such as: algorithms produced, number of TPs per TA, event displays, ADC integral histogram, and a plot of the time starts.

A new save name is found that identifies the HDF5 file the script was run on and increments based on preceding plots for the same file. One can overwrite the first set of plots generated by using `--overwrite`. Plots are saved in two multi-page PDFs: 1) member data histograms and light analysis plots and 2) event displays.

There are two plotting options `--linear` and `--log` that set the y-scale for the plots. By default, plots use both scales with linear on the left y-axis and log on the right y-axis. There is an additional plotting option `--seconds` to produce time plots using seconds instead of ticks.

While running, this can print information about the file reading using `-v` (warnings) and `-vv` (all). Errors and useful output information (save names and location) are always outputted.

One can specify which fragments to _attempt_ to load from with the `--start-frag` option. This is `-10` by default in order to get the last 10 fragments for the given file. One can also specify which fragment to end on (not inclusive) with `--end-frag` option. This is `N` by default (for the previously mentioned reason).

Event displays are processed by default. If there are many TAs that were loaded, then this may take a while to plot. The `--no-display` options skips event display plotting.

A text file is generated that gives reference statistics for each TA data member and gives a count of data members that are at least 2 sigma and 3 sigma from the mean. One can use `--no-anomaly` to stop this file generation.

## Example
```bash
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --help
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 -v
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 -vv
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --start-frag 50 --end-frag 100 # Attempts 50 fragments
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --no-display
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --no-anomaly
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --log
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --linear
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --seconds
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --overwrite
```


-----

<font size="1">
_Last git commit to the markdown source of this page:_


_Author: aeoranday_

_Date: Tue Feb 27 18:18:18 2024 +0100_

_If you see a problem with the documentation on this page, please file an Issue at [https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/trgtools/issues](https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/trgtools/issues)_
</font>
