# Trigger Primitive Dump Info

`tp_dump.py` is a plotting script that shows TP diagnostic information, such as: TP channel histogram and channel vs time over threshold. Plots are saved as SVGs, PDFs, and PNGs.

A new save name is found that identifies the HDF5 file the script was run on and increments based on preceding plots for the same file. One can overwrite the first set of plots generated by using `--overwrite`.

There are two plotting options `--linear` and `--log` that set the y-scale for the plots. By default, plots use both scales with linear on the left y-axis and log on the right y-axis. There is an additional plotting option `--seconds` to produce time plots using seconds instead of ticks.

While running, this can print information about the file reading using `-v` (warnings) and `-vv` (all). Errors and useful output information (save names and location) are always outputted.

One can specify which fragments to load from with the `--start-frag` option. This is -10 by default in order to get the last 10 fragments for the given file. One can also specify which fragment to end on (not inclusive) with `--end-frag` option. This is N by default (for the previously mentioned reason).

A text file is generated that gives reference statistics for each TP data member and gives a count of data members that are at least 2 sigma and 3 sigma from the mean. One can use `--no-anomaly` to stop this file generation.

## Example
```bash
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 # Loads last 10 fragments by default.
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 --help
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 -v
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 -vv
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 --start-frag 50 --end-frag 100 # Loads 50 fragments.
python tp_dump.py file.hdf5 --no-anomaly
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --log
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --linear
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --seconds
python ta_dump.py file.hdf5 --overwrite
```


-----

<font size="1">
_Last git commit to the markdown source of this page:_


_Author: aeoranday_

_Date: Tue Feb 27 18:18:18 2024 +0100_

_If you see a problem with the documentation on this page, please file an Issue at [https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/trgtools/issues](https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/trgtools/issues)_
</font>
