# v1.0.0 User documentation
The DUNE-DAQ/logging package is the integration of ERS and TRACE.
From TRACE, there is the concept of "slow" and "fast" logging paths.
ERS has the concept of multiple destinations.
In TRACE terms, ERS will be used for the slow path -- directly for the "fatal," "error," "warning," and "info" severities and indirectly (via TRACE) for the "log" and "debug" severities.

# Slow path configuration

By default, all ERS severities are configured to have standard out or standard error as a destination.
This means that all fatal, error, warning, info and log messages will go to "the console" (standard out or standard error).

## Slow path debug messages

Since "debug" messages (via `TLOG_DEBUG(dbglvl) << <Issue_or_message>`) are controlled by TRACE, they ultimately have to be enabled by TRACE. TRACE will only give these messages to ERS if the trace debug message is enabled. THEN, ERS will only send the debug messages to the standard out stream if the debug level is less than or equal to the configured "debug level" (the default is zero).  Because this double enabling can be confusing, all applications should call the `dunedaq::logging::Logging::setup()` function.

NOTE: TRACE allows individual levels to be enabled/disabled via the setting or clearing of bits in a 64-bit mask. TRACE has the concept of "system levels" and "debug levels." "debug levels" are a subset of "system levels." "System levels" 8-63 correspond to "debug levels" 0 through 55. So ultimately, TLOG_DEBUG(<dbg_lvl>) supports dbg_lvl from 0 to 55. This should not be overly restrictive because there are 56 controllable levels per TRACE NAME (which normally corresponds to a file).

When the `dunedaq::logging::Logging::setup()` function is called, it will make sure the ERS debug_level is set to a high value such that any debug messages which are TRACE enabled will also be ERS enabled.  Additionally, the function checks for the environment variable DUNEDAQ_ERS_DEBUG_LEVEL and enables TRACE appropriately.

In case there is any doubt if `dunedaq::logging::Logging::setup()` is called or not, the user can enable all debug messages to go to the console by setting two environment variables:
```
export TRACE_LVLS=-1 DUNEDAQ_ERS_DEBUG_LEVEL=55
```
Any debug level above 55 will be lowered to 55. If DUNEDAQ_ERS_DEBUG_LEVEL is set to higher than 55, it also will be internally lowered.  
The value of TRACE_LVLS is a 64-bit mask. "-1" is equivalent to 0xffffffffffffffff (all bits set/on). As noted above,
the debug levels are system levels 8-63 or the enable mask of 0xffffffffffffff00. 


## Enabling Slow Path (ERS) DEBUG messages - volatile vs non-volatile

The non-volatile (memory mapped trace file) configuration is "activated" when one of the first 8 environment variables in the list given by the `tenv` command-line command is set. Commonly, TRACE_FILE is used and is given file path in /tmp such as /tmp/trace_buffer_${USER}_partition_1.  
When TRACE_FILE and TRACE_LVLS are both set when an application is started, the configuration expressed by TRACE_LVLS becomes **non-volatile** and will remain if TRACE_FILE is set to the same path and TRACE_LVLS is not set. If TRACE_LVLS is set to another value, the new value is used.

When the non-volatile (memory mapped trace file) configuration is active, several TRACE command-line functions can be used:

* `tlvls` -- this command outputs a list of all the TRACE names that are currently known, and which levels are enabled for each name

* `tonSg <level>` enables the specified level for *all* TRACE names (the "S" means Slow Path and the "g" means global in this context)

* `tonS -n <TRACE NAME> <level>` enables the specified level for the specified TRACE name

* `toffSg <level>` disables the specified level for *all* TRACE names

* `toffS -n <TRACE NAME> <level>` disables the specified level for the specified TRACE name

Note: The following are equivalent:
```
# TRACE_FILE set or unset
TRACE_LVLS=-1 daqapp
```
and
```
export TRACE_FILE=/tmp/MY_TRACE_FILE
tonSg 0-63
daqapp
```
The latter allows for enabling/disabling dynamically, described next.

## Enabling/Disabling Slow Path (ERS) DEBUG messages dynamically

Assuming non-volatile tracing is enabled as described above. The enabling and disabling of debug messages can be done dynamically while the application is running if the trace functions mentioned above are run from a different command window on the same system if the TRACE_FILE environment variable is set to the same value.





-----

<font size="1">
_Last git commit to the markdown source of this page:_


_Author: John Freeman_

_Date: Thu Apr 8 09:44:19 2021 -0500_

_If you see a problem with the documentation on this page, please file an Issue at [https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/logging/issues](https://github.com/DUNE-DAQ/logging/issues)_
</font>
